>> Jem Young: Excellent,
back to the slides.
>> Jem Young: Again,
just run this command so
you log in with your ssh key and
Security Terry.
What's he gonna say?
Disable root login!
Yes, we do not ever want to log
in as root cuz you don't have to.
You never wanna log in as root.
Again if you're doing things with root the
server will not warn you when you're about
to do something really stupid,
it'll just let you do it and
we wanna let the server tell us if
we're about to do something stupid.
So disable root login,
actually why do we single root login?
So this is a screenshot from last night,
number eight maybe it
was the night before.
Two days ago.
So I created a test server that students
over there already logged into earlier.
So, here is where I created it and
then this was thirty eight seconds
later somebody is already trying
to break into that server,
from that IP address and
if you look at where that IP address is?
It's somewhere in China.
So this is why I say
security is a real thing.
I make light of it, but it's a serious
business especially if you have customer
sensitive data on your server you want to
disable root login cuz that's the first
thing that people are gonna try to go for
when they try to break into your server.
Cuz root is the easiest way.
Root with no password is just like,
it's leaving your house wide open
with your flat screen, invisible, and
your gold bars and your Ferraris,
and whatever else everybody has.
You don't have Ferraris in your-
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Certainly not on my
Digital Oceans server.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, yeah.
[LAUGH] So, what we wanted to do is,
we wanted to disable re-login.
So we are gonna modify the SSH config.
SHD, stand for SH Daemon.
A Daemon is just a process
that runs on your server.
So, we are sudo into that and edit it in
vi and we are just disable root login.
So, I will give everybody
a second to do that.
So in your command line sudo
vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config.
>> Speaker 2: Of course,
this is from the server, right?
>> Jem Young: This is on the server, yes.
Everything we do from now on will be
on the server until I say exit out.
Good question, though.
>> Speaker 2: Is there no
auto-complete on the server?
Or tab complete, I should say.
>> Jem Young: There is.
That's a good way to tell
if you're [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] delayed.
>> Jem Young: And just find the line that
says permit root log in an it'll say yes,
change that to no.
>> Jem Young: And if you can't find it,
remember how to find in command mode
slash whatever you're trying to find.
So as soon as more people start
looking up, I'll go ahead and
demo that on our server.
>> Jem Young: Okay, so I'm just
gonna go ahead and do that example.
So I'm on my server, so
sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_,
let's Tab complete that.
To my sudo password, and
I'm gonna find permit right there.
And dollar sign's gonna jump
me to the end, insert no.
And write quit.
>> Jem Young: Everybody follow that?
It's pretty fast but
these are the commands we're running.
You're gonna vi sshd PermitRootLogin,
change that to no.
Then we're gonna restart the ssh service.
So you can change this file all day,
until you restart the service
it won't take effect.
So to restart the service, sudo service,
ssh and we'll say restart.
>> Speaker 2: SSHD?
>> Jem Young: In this case no.
Usually it would be sshd but
ssh I believe will do into this one.
You might be right.
Actually I'll do sshd.
I think they both work on a for
some reason.
>> Speaker 2: Interesting.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, I've done it before
and it works with ssh but great point.
Let's do sshd,
that's the daemon that's actually ssh.
But I believe you can do either.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I just did
the other one and it worked, I think.
>> Speaker 2: Wow.
>> Jem Young: Okay, hey,
I learn something new every time.
>> Jem Young: So at this point,
you have now disabled your root login.
So I know I've hammered
it at least 50 times.
But if you were not able to login
with the user you made, you are now,
once you log out, you will be locked
out unless you did things correctly.
So I'm just gonna exit.
I just wanna make sure that I'm
still able to login, and we're good.
So if you exited and
you were not able to login,
you might have to start
over at this point.
I am really sorry.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
they were just asking about what sshd is.
Can you just explain that?
>> Jem Young: Yes, so there are processes
on servers which are constantly running in
the background.
They're called daemons.
And sshd just stands for ssh daemon.
It's the process that's running ssh
in the background at all times.
Great question, though.
>> Jem Young: All right, so
everybody in this room looks good,
no one looks scared or perplexed.
So we are all logged in.
>> Jem Young: All right, so
if you did this correctly,
Internet High Five from
my hand on the screen.
You can't see me at home, but
good work everybody that was a that was
pretty hard and it's a little dangerous
to get into the land of lock yourself
out of server but we're good now.